hi I'm Cameron one of the managers at
China direct I thought I'd just give you
guys a step-by-step guide on how you can
successfully import clothing from China
first stage you need to go through is
actually to research and check out
exactly what type of supplies you want
to be with the way you go about this is
actually to do a specification sheet in
this yield detail the type of product
you want in case in this case the
clothing you'd want to talk about the
stitching involved the fabric you want
to use the designs buttons anything to
do with the actual making of the
clothing from there you'll actually get
that specification sheet and put it into
a request for quite the you then send
that out to at least 30 or so suppliers
and obviously they'll get back to you a
number of them will get back to you with
it with an offer you can then shortlist
them down depending perhaps on the price
their previous ability to export perhaps
to Australia or around us around the
world the management they have in place
anything they can prove to you to show
you basically their capabilities to do
what you want from there you can then
move on to your sampling and purchase
order negotiation this is where you
knuckle down and make sure you get the
exact type of sample that you want for
your product this may come from number
of different suppliers involved
basically a lot to learn from using them
them Santals samples they send the new
samples back until you get to a point
where you're happy with a supplier who
is giving you the right type of sample
from there you can move on to purchase
order this is where you'll detail what's
going to take place in in terms of
what's been made the price the terms and
conditions which would include time
delays and what happens if there's a
time delay perhaps what happens if the
quality is not up to standard you might
in enforce it a fine or ask for a
replacement stock it basically just
safeguards you if anything goes wrong
and all this also the supply knows
exactly what you want from there but you
can move on to stage 3 which is
obviously production and delivery
management this is where you put your
purchase order into place you arrange
supplier payment we normally work on a
30 percent upfront and the 70 percent on
the Bill of Lading at the shipping yards
which basically means the production's
been done and it's been put on 2
ship this is probably the most effective
way to make sure that the supplier
delivers exactly what you want because
obviously they're not going to get their
full payment until it's actually
completed and delivered to you to your
standards the key thing I think you guys
need to get from this is obviously to
monitor them throughout the whole
production process as you can see here
from one of our pre one of our suppliers
with use production of clothing has a
lot of different stages there's
obviously the weaving the sampling the
cutting there so in the ironing and the
packaging through all these steps you
can obviously check with them week by
week to make sure that they're up to
speed and then everything's carrying
fine and obviously then the supply knows
exactly that you're on on task with them
and they know what is expected once
you've completed your production you can
get the supplier to give you a supplier
self assessment this is what we use to
safeguard yourself and to let the
supplier know exactly what you want
within this size supplier self
assessment you might detail what might
go wrong with the making of the garment
and it basically outlines what aspects
you need the supplier to pay particular
attention to and once the production is
done obviously then they can tick off
each loss section to say they've you
know done that part that certain part
that you requested this then means you
can then move on from there on to
organising delivery and getting your
customs clearance I've also just
included a timeline here for everyone
this will give you an idea of how long
it actually takes from the initial
research stage through to getting the
products delivered to your door and
normally for us it's around four months
this obviously depends on the size of
the project the amount of production
involved the strength of the supplier to
do it quickly and stuff like that but if
a rough guideline would help you a lot
so it's around we had four months from
there if you guys have any questions
feel free to send us an email at info at
China direct sourcing comm done to you
and hopefully we'll be able to help you
out till then good luck with your
importing